.Dd April 26, 2025
.Dt BPMAILRECV 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bpmailrecv
.Nd reception utility for data from
.Xr bpmailsend 1
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -allow-invalid-mime
.Op Fl -no-verify-ipn | s Ar dns_server_list
.Op Fl t Ar topic_id
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
receives data sent from
.Xr bpmailsend 1
and outputs the message to standard output.
"Return-Path" headers will be removed from messages that can be parsed as a
MIME message.
.Pp
.Nm
rejects messages that cannot be parsed as a MIME message by default.
By default,
.Nm
requests IPN RRTYPE (264) records from the domains of the RFC5322.From
addresses.
If there are no records with the sending DTN node's node number,
then the message will be rejected.
.Pp
.Nm
must receive from the same Delay-Tolerant Payload Conditioning (DTPC) topic
that
.Xr bpmailsend 1
is sending from.
DTPC is implemented such that it must receive on service number 129, so an
endpoint with this service number must be added in
.Xr bpadmin 1 .
.Pp
The options are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -allow-invalid-mime
Do not reject messages that cannot be parsed as a MIME message.
If data cannot be parsed as a MIME message, then IPN verification will not
be performed.
.It Fl -no-verify-ipn
Accept a message without checking if there are IPN RRTYPE records for the
RFC5322.From domains with the node number of the sending node.
.It Fl s Ar dns_server_list
Set the list of DNS servers to query from.
.Ar dns_server_list
is a comma separated list of DNS servers.
See
.Xr ares_set_servers_csv 3
for the description of available formats.
By default, the name servers specified in
.Xr resolv.conf 5
or
.Xr named.conf 5
files are contacted.
.It Fl t Ar topic_id
Receive using the DTPC topic identified by
.Ar topic_id .
By default, a topic ID of 25 is used.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
One of the following exit values will be returned:
.Bl -tag
.It Dv EXIT_FAILURE
The received message was rejected, the operation failed, or invalid usage.
For example,
.Fl -allow-invalid-mime
is not specified and the message cannot be parsed as a MIME message, the
domains of the "From" addresses do not have IPN records with the source
node's node number, or ION and
.Xr dtpcadmin 1
are not initialized.
.It Dv EXIT_SUCCESS
Successful program execution.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bpmailsend 1 ,
.Xr bpadmin 1 ,
.Xr dtpcadmin 1 ,
.Xr ares_set_servers_csv 3 ,
.Xr resolv.conf 5 ,
.Xr named.conf 5
.Rs
.%A Scott M. Johnson
.%D March 18, 2025
.%I Internet Engineering Task Force
.%O Work in Progress, Internet-Draft
.%R draft-johnson-dtn-interplanetary-smtp-01
.%T A method for delivery of SMTP messages over Bundle Protocol networks.
.%U https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-johnson-dtn-interplanetary-smtp/01/
.Re
.Sh BUGS
Due to bpmail consisting of two utilities
.Xr bpmailsend 1
and
.Nm ,
it is not possible to simultaneously send and receive with a single topic ID on
a node.
To work around this, the sending and receiving parties need to prenegotiate what
topics will be used for sending and receiving.
For example, one node could send at topic ID 1 and receive at topic ID 2, while
the other node sends at topic ID 2 and receives at topic ID 1.
.Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
To alleviate spoofing, the sending and receiving nodes should have a BPSec
policy to guarantee authenticity.
