.Dd April 26, 2025
.Dt BPMAILSEND 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bpmailsend
.Nd send mail to be submitted at another network connected by bundle protocol
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl t Ar topic_id
.Ar profile_id
.Ar dest_eid
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility provides functionality for the sending portion of bpmail.
.Nm
reads data from standard input until EOF or until a null character
.Pq Ql \e0
is encountered.
The data is sent with Delay-Tolerant Payload Conditioning (DTPC) on topic
.Ar topic_id
with transmission profile
.Ar profile_id
to the DTPC application receiving at endpoint
.Ar dest_eid .
.Pp
The specified
.Ar profile_id
must be added with
.Xr dtpcadmin 1 .
DTPC is implemented such that it must send with service number 128, so an
endpoint with this service number must be added in
.Xr bpadmin 1
and
.Ar dest_eid
must be that endpoint.
.Pp
The options are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl t Ar topic_id
Send using the DTPC topic identified by
.Ar topic_id .
By default, a topic ID of 25 is used.
.El
.Pp
For most use cases,
.Nm
will receive messages destined for recipients at the other side of a DTN link
from a message transfer agent, and
.Xr bpmailrecv 1
will be running at the other end of the link at endpoint
.Ar dest_eid
and using topic
.Ar topic_id
and will submit the data it receives from
.Nm
to a message submission agent.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
One of the following exit values will be returned:
.Bl -tag
.It Dv EXIT_FAILURE
The operation failed or invalid usage.
For example,
.Ar topic_id
is out of range or could not be opened,
.Ar profile_id
is out of range, data could not be read from standard input, data is too
large to send, or ION and
.Xr dtpcadmin 1
are not initialized.
.It Dv EXIT_SUCCESS
Successful program execution.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bpmailrecv 1 ,
.Xr bpadmin 1 ,
.Xr dtpcadmin 1
.Rs
.%A Scott M. Johnson
.%D March 18, 2025
.%I Internet Engineering Task Force
.%O Work in Progress, Internet-Draft
.%R draft-johnson-dtn-interplanetary-smtp-01
.%T A method for delivery of SMTP messages over Bundle Protocol networks.
.%U https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-johnson-dtn-interplanetary-smtp/01/
.Re
.Sh BUGS
Due to bpmail consisting of two utilities
.Nm
and
.Xr bpmailrecv 1 ,
it is not possible to simultaneously send and receive with a single topic ID on
a node.
To work around this, the sending and receiving parties need to prenegotiate what
topics will be used for sending and receiving.
For example, one node could send at topic ID 1 and receive at topic ID 2, while
the other node sends at topic ID 2 and receives at topic ID 1.
.Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
To alleviate spoofing, the sending and receiving nodes should have a BPSec
policy to guarantee authenticity.
